README.md, before:

# Golang Fishgame (WIP title)

https://behrcorp.codecks.io

## Overall gameplay ideas

Something like Slay the Sprite/FTL/The Bazaar, but in the ocean.
Game starts with a selection of 3 different fish options to add to your 'school'.
From there, the player is offered an option of 3 choices repeatedly, with some sort of boss encounter every once in a while.
Combats are an option, the school will fight an array of other fish in an auto-battler type scene. When enemy fish are defeated, the might be able to be eaten by your fish for increased stats.

Fish can be rearranged in your school.
Fish can grow when fed a certain number of times and gain stats.
Some fish might eat other fish and replace them in your school.
Some fish can have downsides.
Fish can have adjacency bonuses for being next to other fish.
Some fish might not be beneficial to its neighbors.
dumb title fishter than light

PAT
resource management with fish types breeding behind
think about job classes and how that might apply to fish.
perks?
perks as items placed physically into the background of a fishtank
sandcastle, shell, filter

APO
make it an idle game or something, constant stuff going on.
limit micro
resource management style to the game, where fish are constantly reproducing. economy of fish.
some fish make money/food, some battle, etc
each fish has some pond ability, and some way to battle.
fish has chainmail armor / fireball spell
final fishtasy / final fish fantasy

## Fish defensive mechanisms research

schooling - bonus damage (and life?) for adjacent schooling fish
camouflage - percent change to evade
speed + manueverability
spines - damage when attacked
venom - applies damage over time effect when attacking
mimicry - copy some other fish
flying - immune to damage for some period of time
safe burrows - digging / anenomes
electricity - stun when attacked
taunt - tank fish that can block or fights a specific enemy
healer fish

Initial 3 choices:

- Schooling Fish (adjacency damage bonus)
- Predator Fish (bonus to damage when attacking smaller prey)
- Venomous Fish (On hit, apply damage-over-time effect)
  MORE TO COME and be prioritized

ROCK PAPER SCISSORS relationship??? implies effective against one and weak against another
APO says use stats instead of stuff - linear algebra?
5x rock paper scissors, everything is strong to 2 and weak to 2

Pats idea: lanes, fish in each slot fight each opposing numbered fish
what happens when there are uneven amounts of fish?
can drag during battle

some kind of drawback to some fish

## Misc notes

different levels like Slay the spire

- The Shallows
- The Deep
- The Dark
- The Trench
  etc...

## Ocean Fish

Predators:

- Tuna - open ocean, migratory, very fast, good in the cold, cold blooded, must constantly swim, eats herring/mackerel, 150kg up to 680KG???!!!
- Cod - lives in areas with soft bottoms, eats small fish/lobsters, 50kg
- Salmon - rivers and coastal seas, eats small fish/invertibrates, 2-3 years of growth followed by a long migration to breed. Chinook salmon die after breeding, atlantic ones dont - 4kg usuall but up to 50kg seen
- Sturgeon - inland sea, very old, bony plates, valuable caviar - HUGE 1,571 kg
- Goby - rocky reefs, tiny predator, hide inside urchins, nearly always touch reef surface,pair mates,
- Anglerfish - deep sea, ambush predator,
  Marlin
  Swordfish
  Grunion - coastal open ocean, micro predator, reproduce on shore during full moon,

Filter Feeders:

- Mackerel - coastal to open ocean, filter feeder,

Pickers

- Clownfish - coral reef, plankton/algae picker, live in host anenome, changes sex throughout lifetime,

  Barracuda - open ocean and reef predator,
  Eel
  Puffer
  Seahorse - coral and rocky reefs, Visual planktivore (predator)
  snapper - rocky bottoms, active predator,
  grouper - reefs, sit and wait predator,
  Sunfish - open ocean, foraging predator but mostly jellyfish, high growth rate - very large 2,744 kg
  herring - coastal seas and estuaries, Foraging predator, camouflage, large schools - 1kg
  sardine - coastal to open ocean, filter feeder, tons of eggs, oily - 0.5 kg
  lionfish - coral reefs, ambush predator, moves slow, eats anything, territorial, venomous spines, - 1/2kg
  flounder - Seagrass beds and offshore soft bottoms, ambush, live on seafloor, camoflauge, good at swimming, 10kg or so
  dolphin
  whale - 190 tonnes
  manta ray - huge 1350 kg
  octopus
  squid
  crab
  lobster
  anenome
  urchin

## Types

- Filter Feeders
  these fish would not deal much damage, but would gather lots of food?
- Schooling
  these fish get adjacency bonuses to damage/health/evasion
- Predator
  these fish get bloodlust and get more damage from hitting other fish of the correct prey size
- PartnersWith
  these fish get huge benefits from a single fish type nearby.

## Other libraries to look into

Eventing might be useful in this project, look into this library:
https://github.com/maniartech/signals
https://github.com/sedyh/awesome-ebitengine
ECS https://github.com/yottahmd/donburi
scene manager https://github.com/joelschutz/stagehand
graphics https://github.com/quasilyte/ebitengine-graphics

Commit message:

moved old code to folder, starting new repo architecture with simulation and UI layers seperated fully.

README.md, after:

# Golang Fishgame (WIP title)

https://behrcorp.codecks.io

## Overall gameplay ideas

Something like Slay the Sprite/FTL/The Bazaar, but in the ocean.
Game starts with a selection of 3 different fish options to add to your 'school'.
From there, the player is offered an option of 3 choices repeatedly, with some sort of boss encounter every once in a while.
Combats are an option, the school will fight an array of other fish in an auto-battler type scene. When enemy fish are defeated, the might be able to be eaten by your fish for increased stats.

Fish can be rearranged in your school.
Fish can grow when fed a certain number of times and gain stats.
Some fish might eat other fish and replace them in your school.
Some fish can have downsides.
Fish can have adjacency bonuses for being next to other fish.
Some fish might not be beneficial to its neighbors.
dumb title fishter than light

PAT
resource management with fish types breeding behind
think about job classes and how that might apply to fish.
perks?
perks as items placed physically into the background of a fishtank
sandcastle, shell, filter

APO
make it an idle game or something, constant stuff going on.
limit micro
resource management style to the game, where fish are constantly reproducing. economy of fish.
some fish make money/food, some battle, etc
each fish has some pond ability, and some way to battle.
fish has chainmail armor / fireball spell
final fishtasy / final fish fantasy

MEDGE
seperate UI from gameplay fully.
be able to run game on its own in just data layer.
UI becomes more reactive to state of the world instead of them put together.
AVOID NIL
make a fish simulator w/ api to move stuff around, etc
Collection.AddItem(item,index)
add item to specific index and move things if need be

## Fish defensive mechanisms research

schooling - bonus damage (and life?) for adjacent schooling fish
camouflage - percent change to evade
speed + manueverability
spines - damage when attacked
venom - applies damage over time effect when attacking
mimicry - copy some other fish
flying - immune to damage for some period of time
safe burrows - digging / anenomes
electricity - stun when attacked
taunt - tank fish that can block or fights a specific enemy
healer fish

Initial 3 choices:

- Schooling Fish (adjacency damage bonus)
- Predator Fish (bonus to damage when attacking smaller prey)
- Venomous Fish (On hit, apply damage-over-time effect)
  MORE TO COME and be prioritized

ROCK PAPER SCISSORS relationship??? implies effective against one and weak against another
APO says use stats instead of stuff - linear algebra?
5x rock paper scissors, everything is strong to 2 and weak to 2

Pats idea: lanes, fish in each slot fight each opposing numbered fish
what happens when there are uneven amounts of fish?
can drag during battle

some kind of drawback to some fish

## Misc notes

different levels like Slay the spire

- The Shallows
- The Deep
- The Dark
- The Trench
  etc...

## Ocean Fish

Predators:

- Tuna - open ocean, migratory, very fast, good in the cold, cold blooded, must constantly swim, eats herring/mackerel, 150kg up to 680KG???!!!
- Cod - lives in areas with soft bottoms, eats small fish/lobsters, 50kg
- Salmon - rivers and coastal seas, eats small fish/invertibrates, 2-3 years of growth followed by a long migration to breed. Chinook salmon die after breeding, atlantic ones dont - 4kg usuall but up to 50kg seen
- Sturgeon - inland sea, very old, bony plates, valuable caviar - HUGE 1,571 kg
- Goby - rocky reefs, tiny predator, hide inside urchins, nearly always touch reef surface,pair mates,
- Anglerfish - deep sea, ambush predator,
  Marlin
  Swordfish
  Grunion - coastal open ocean, micro predator, reproduce on shore during full moon,

Filter Feeders:

- Mackerel - coastal to open ocean, filter feeder,

Pickers

- Clownfish - coral reef, plankton/algae picker, live in host anenome, changes sex throughout lifetime,

  Barracuda - open ocean and reef predator,
  Eel
  Puffer
  Seahorse - coral and rocky reefs, Visual planktivore (predator)
  snapper - rocky bottoms, active predator,
  grouper - reefs, sit and wait predator,
  Sunfish - open ocean, foraging predator but mostly jellyfish, high growth rate - very large 2,744 kg
  herring - coastal seas and estuaries, Foraging predator, camouflage, large schools - 1kg
  sardine - coastal to open ocean, filter feeder, tons of eggs, oily - 0.5 kg
  lionfish - coral reefs, ambush predator, moves slow, eats anything, territorial, venomous spines, - 1/2kg
  flounder - Seagrass beds and offshore soft bottoms, ambush, live on seafloor, camoflauge, good at swimming, 10kg or so
  dolphin
  whale - 190 tonnes
  manta ray - huge 1350 kg
  octopus
  squid
  crab
  lobster
  anenome
  urchin

## Types

- Filter Feeders
  these fish would not deal much damage, but would gather lots of food?
- Schooling
  these fish get adjacency bonuses to damage/health/evasion
- Predator
  these fish get bloodlust and get more damage from hitting other fish of the correct prey size
- PartnersWith
  these fish get huge benefits from a single fish type nearby.

## Other libraries to look into

Eventing might be useful in this project, look into this library:
https://github.com/maniartech/signals
https://github.com/sedyh/awesome-ebitengine
ECS https://github.com/yottahmd/donburi
scene manager https://github.com/joelschutz/stagehand
graphics https://github.com/quasilyte/ebitengine-graphics
