docs/TODO.md, before:

https://trello.com/b/mqUYXtuY/work-tasks

- [x] Implement Scenes System - done 4/30/2025
- [x] Implement Main Menu and UI framework basics - done 5/1/2025
- [x] Implement Main Game drag/drop UI - worked on 5/1/2025, not finished - 5/5/2025 - mostly finished but bugs when dragging upwards
- [x] Implement Fish drag + dropping
- [x] Implement Scenes - Menu / Play / Options? / Credits? - 5/4/2025 menu/play implemented
- [x] Remove player2 and replace with something more generic - 5/14/2025
- [x] Implement Levels (keep choices in mind) - 5/15/2025
- [x] Implement first fish choice - 5/15/2025

- [ ] Prevent dragging during battle
- [ ] Add delay/button before battle starts
- [ ] Implement fish pond storage area
- [ ] Implement Fish Feeding + Growth
- [ ] Add new fish Types + bonuses - topslot, bottomslot, adjacency, etc
- [ ] Add new fish behaviors - reactive, poison, evasion, stun, schooling
- [ ] Transitions between scenes / encounters
- [ ] Get basic first choice + first battle complete flow working
- [ ] Add on a choice option after the first battle

# BUGS

- [ ] Fix drag/drop bugs
- [ ] Fix drag/drop upwards/downwards
- [ ] Issue when fish is picked is visibly in slot 1 though its storing slot 0

# BRAINSTORM

- [ ] Brainstorm + Implement level choices (perks / new fish / events)
- [ ] Brainstorm + Implement Fish Tags
- [ ] Change to all ocean-based fish

# ART / UI

- [ ] Improve button graphics
- [ ] Button OnHover animation
- [ ] Button OnClick animation
- [ ] initial choice background art

Commit message:

added some dev images, Item debuff framework, enemy tooltips, game over screen, slot drop bug fixed, refactored loader, split levels and items into different CSV files and probably more.

docs/TODO.md, after:

https://trello.com/b/mqUYXtuY/work-tasks

- [x] Implement Scenes System - done 4/30/2025
- [x] Implement Main Menu and UI framework basics - done 5/1/2025
- [x] Implement Main Game drag/drop UI - worked on 5/1/2025, not finished - 5/5/2025 - mostly finished but bugs when dragging upwards
- [x] Implement Fish drag + dropping
- [x] Implement Scenes - Menu / Play / Options? / Credits? - 5/4/2025 menu/play implemented
- [x] Remove player2 and replace with something more generic - 5/14/2025
- [x] Implement Levels (keep choices in mind) - 5/15/2025
- [x] Implement first fish choice - 5/15/2025
- [x] Item Debuff framework - 5/16/2025
- [x] Add enemy item tooltips on hover - 5/16/2025
- [x] Implement 'game over' screen - 5/16/2025
- [ ] Add items with debuffs
- [ ] Prevent dragging during battle
- [ ] Add delay/button before battle starts
- [ ] Implement fish pond storage area
- [ ] Implement Fish Feeding + Growth
- [ ] Add new fish Types + bonuses - topslot, bottomslot, adjacency, etc
- [ ] Add new fish behaviors - reactive, poison, evasion, stun, schooling
- [ ] Transitions between scenes / encounters
- [ ] Get basic first choice + first battle complete flow working
- [ ] Add on a choice option after the first battle

# BUGS

- [ ] Fix drag/drop bugs
- [ ] Fix drag/drop upwards/downwards
- [x] Issue when fish is picked is visibly in slot 1 though its storing slot 0 - 5/16/2025
- [ ] Enemy UI slots should be shown during battle

# BRAINSTORM

- [ ] Brainstorm + Implement level choices (perks / new fish / events)
- [ ] Brainstorm + Implement Fish Tags
- [ ] Change to all ocean-based fish
- [ ] Add fish sizes

# ART / UI

- [ ] Improve button graphics
- [ ] Button OnHover animation
- [ ] Button OnClick animation
- [ ] initial choice background art
